Pavlo’s Tech Story.
I started my journey as a Software Engineer by learning about Ruby on Rails. It was my third year at the university. Naturally I wrote some Python and C++ code by that time but that didn’t really clicked. Until I found Ruby as a programming language. I spent a year reading throguh books and building some simple projects. I was working on an old nettop with 10 inch screen and super poor performance. I landed my first job at Unteleported simply by chance. And I was super happy there, spent a year or year and a half working with them. It was a small friends owned outsourcing company in Kyiv. I worked on multiple projects and learned a ton thanks to super helpful guidance from my colleagues. While working there I learned about Ember.js and enjoyed working with frontend and javascript. I built various projects there from supporting education apps to building complex inventory management software and banking clients. I dropped that job to start a small webshop with a few of my friends. We ran it for a couple of years building marketing websites and some more complex projects. I did some freelancing on Upwork during that time. Then a year after I left Unteleported one of the clients I’ve worked with during my time at Unteleported came back to me with a request to find a decent cross-platform solution for their mobile apps. I started experimenting with Ember and Cordova and after a month it showed terrible results. They were working on the inventory management software + payment processing and naturally long lists of data was an imporant part of their UX. After multiple optimizations Ember and Cordova solution still took long time to start, the TTI for iOS was around 3s for a list of 100 items, and 11s for Android. So I spent another month to try and find a good solution. Fortunately 6 months before that React Native has introduced official Android support. So after careful considerations I suggested we use it as a go-to technology. I then spent multiple years at the company called Axsy and it was quite a ride. I was learning a new technology on the fly and teaching it to 20 experienced engineers as we were gradually migrating our mobile apps to it. At some point our product become a clone of Salesforce FSL with windows support so I spent some time working on windows phones as well. I was responsible for architecture and most of the critical features including implementing Salesforce Flow support within our mobile app and building salesforce powered chat app. We developed a complex architecture that allowed us to publish customized applications with different names and branding for multiple platforms all from the sae app code. I was a go-to person when our CEO needed a new feature for a demo for potential clients. I was able to sheep happy path for completely new stuff in a week. To this day it was most complex and interesting project I worked on. I was doing public talks at that time and done countless learn and share sessions with my colleagues. And I really enjoyed my time there. But I got tired of the fact that none of our products were in production and we never really got feedback from real people. So I took myself a second job at Uniform Teeth. I joined as a founding mobile engineer and was responsible for a greenfield support app development for people undergoing aligners treatment. I worked hands on with our PM and Designer and pushed back a lot on some of the design choices we took. Naturally there were failures like a case when I was against a 10 screen onboarding flow proposed by our designer but haven’t pushed back against it hard enough. So we ended up shipping it. And then I flew from Kyiv to SF to try and get our patients experience first hand. Learned that we weren’t capturing enough feedback from the field and people really struggled with that onboarding flow and at the end treatment coordinators at the location were filling all the data for them. So instead of optimizing patient experience we made it more complex and increased the load on treatment coordinators. Thus we ended up simplifying that flow to only 3 screens and noticed increase in satisfaction from both coordinators and patients. I mostly built the full app on my own overlooking development and publishing of the app including negotiating with app reviewers. I also worked a bit on Ruby on Rails code and Go code when I needed some endpoints that were missing and when our BE engineers were busy with other stuff (working on the internal patient record system). Naturally I worked with HIPAA compliance. I spent some good time there but after a year or so we ran out of proper work. I mean we were coming up with tasks and stuff to do but there was no real product work involved. And also I wanted more money. So I found a different job at Sunroom. It was a tik-tok like app for creators to make money. I joined as a 4th member of dev team. The app was in development for 10 months before and they were struggling with some performance issues before the initial release. I jumped in to help with video playback performance and in two months we have published the app. This was the toughest ime in my career. I mentored a junior engineer, I was working like crazy putting in 10 hours of work a day, I was shipping features every few days. I worked closely with our CEO building analytics pipelines, analyzing user behavior and creating dashboards in Tableau. I was helping my colleagues with their personal issues and was advising my CEO on how to retain talent when I felt like someone is going to leave. At it’s peak we were a 10 person team with a very technical and not people-friendly CTO. At some point I got an invitation for a performance review call from my CEO (the first one ever at my career). I was told that I need to work more like “that guy” meaning putting up to 12hours a day and saturdays. After that I immediately started to look for another job. Tbh it was the best job so far as I enjoyed everything abot that job - short release cycles, shipping features, talking to actual users and iterating on their feedback, building A/B tests, creating analytics pipelines, working closely with CEO and designers, caring for my colleagues. If the workload wouldn’t been so harsh I’d stayed there for way longer. Two weeks after that I landed another job at PointInside. It was an interesting project - a last mile delivery for malls with an in-house built indoor navigation. There were 2 engineers, a CTO and engineering manager working on a project. Turned out I was the most senior React engineer in the company. I immediately identified a lot of structural problems with how the app was built, done a few training sessions on react best practices. And we signed in on gradual improvements over time. I created a design/component system from scratch to unify our code base and make it easier for my peers to build the app. I was coaching, creating better engineering pipelines, improving code quality. 6 months after we learned that the company ran out of money. And while were preparing next round of funding I became responsible for the completely new project, I planned designs, architecture, prepared presentations. It was fun and interesting, but I was joking that by the time it takes to write a documentation on some feature and get approval - I would’ve built and published the feature in Sunroom. But that didn’t help the company survive. So we were all layed off. I took 2 months off. And started looking for a new job. At this point my former CTO from PointInside came back to me with a new gig offering a part time job to completely rework their website for an NGO that tracks floods and build the mobile apps. I used Expo with new Expo Navigation to use the same codebase for all 3 platfors (iOS, Android, Web). Took me 3 months. Was a fun project.  And I landed another job at Allergan. I joined a small team supporting a mobile app served to 8 million users monthly. I was building new features, improving existing ones and focusing on overall platform stability. At some point I noticed a feature that seemed to be overlooked for some time. I began investigating and turned out that this feature was our money making machine. It was built few years before and everyone forgot about it. I started digging and asking around and turned out that the feature was slow and users were unhappy and we were loosing millions of dollars per month. Based on my research and activity I convinced our head or product to give it a proper attention. They created a team around that feature and I was responsible for it for quire a while. This is a large organization and all the processes are slow. Also I’m working with the best EM here. I survived 3 rounds of layoffs despite working as a contractor and living in Poland while the rest of my team is in the US. We become a platform team and I’ve been introducing various improvements into our codebase, CI/CD optimizations and implementing E2E testing with Maestro. I’m also an active advocate for using Claude Code in the workplace and bringing AI into engineering. My contract is about to end in 2 months and my VP of engineering is fighting to keep me for longer but there are limitations of being part of a large enterprise where people doesn’t really count so it’s time for me to look for another job. Tbh, I became a bit bored and lazy here but money are good. Because I was bored and wanted to explore new AI workflows I started building my own product https://www.withinbudget.app/ that will be released to app store in a few days. I really enjoyed working on that app, and 90% of the code was written by AI but I put a lot of work into optimizng UX and creating the fastest money tracker app on the market. I also gave a talk on AI a month ago https://youtu.be/WA7buO4ayHc at wawtech. I consider myself a Product-minded engineer as I like to work on products. To me the tech is needed to build the product not the other way around. I’m now looking for a new job. I think I’m ready (and my EM agrees with me) to transition into a more leadership position from my Staff position. I have a few limitations though. I’m Ukrainian who’s based in Poland since the beginning of the Russian invasion. I’ve been working with US companies mostly, remotely for the majority of my career as  I love traveling. I’m not entirely sure whether it’ll be possible to land an EM position or even remote position in this market or maybe I’ll need to fallback to some local offerings in poland. Also system design interviews is probably my weakest point. In addition I’m probably not very familiar with gargone for leadership roles (given I don’t have formal experience). I’m grown on the Pragmatic Programmers books and DRY and Convention over configuration principles. I’  I feel like I’ve been stuck in senior/staff software engineer role for a while and not really growing in terms of skills and salary. I used to land jobs by writing directly to the decision makers with a pitch on Linkedin (I’ll attach an example of the pitch). Here are some roles that sound interesting to me https://explore.jobs.netflix.net/careers/job/790302157129 https://posthog.com/careers/product-engineer and https://buffer.com/journey/7d5a1eb1-9603-420d-a3aa-1ec2121fd84f?ashby_jid=7d5a1eb1-9603-420d-a3aa-1ec2121fd84f  with my experience I’m down to working with any technology or language but I most enjoy building mobile apps with react native.  
